BEIJING - China is making plans for the future development of its space program, including exploring asteroids and the Jovian system, collecting samples from Mars and exploring the polar region of the moon, said an official from the China National Space Administration (CNSA) on Saturday.
Xu Hongliang, a spokesperson of the CNSA, said at a press conference held in Beijing that about the year 2025 China plans to launch a probe to collect samples from a near-Earth asteroid and explore a comet in one mission.
China plans to launch a Mars sample-return mission and a Jovian system exploration mission sometime about 2030, Xu said.
In addition, China plans to launch the Chang'e-6 and Chang'e-7 lunar probes in the coming five years to explore the environment and resources and collect samples from the polar region of the moon, Xu said.
By the end of 2022, China will have completed the construction of its space station, in which astronauts can stay for prolonged periods to carry out scientific experiments, Xu said.
"We should coordinate space science, space technology and space applications, in accordance with the principle of being technically realizable, financially affordable and scientifically contributive," said Xu.
The development of heavy-lift launch vehicles, reusable space transportation systems and satellite internet will also be the focus of future development plans, according to Xu.
The CNSA released new images taken by the country's first Mars rover Zhurong on Friday, signifying the complete success of China's first Mars exploration mission.
Xu said that China has seen new breakthroughs in the country's Tianwen-1 mission. The probe has, for the first time, successfully completed the interplanetary flight, soft-landing and roving on an extraterrestrial planet.
The completion of the orbiting, landing and roving on the red planet in one mission indicates that the country has come to the forefront of the world in Mars exploration, Xu said.
He also noted that this is the first time that the country has carried out monitoring and communication activities over a distance of 400 million km and obtained first-hand scientific data on Mars.

China has unveiled measures for building a demonstration zone for achieving common prosperity through high-quality development in Zhejiang province, with a view to exploring effective approaches to address the problem of the country's unbalanced and inadequate development.
The Communist Party of China Central Committee and the State Council, China's Cabinet, jointly published a guideline on Thursday supporting Zhejiang taking the lead in building a demonstration zone as an example for promoting common prosperity nationwide.
Recognizing that common prosperity is an essential requirement of socialism and people's common aspirations, the guideline said this relates not only to economic issues, but also is a political issue that matters to the foundation of the Party's governance.
Despite the historical achievements that China has made toward fully completing the building of a moderately prosperous society, particularly in eliminating absolute poverty in rural areas across the country, it still faces the prominent problem of unbalanced and inadequate development, with a big gap between the development of urban and rural areas as well as a big division in income distribution, according to the document.
Zhejiang has been chosen to build the demonstration zone because it has achieved marked progress in resolving the problem of unbalanced and inadequate development and has advantages for that purpose, the document said. The province also has broad room for improvement and big potential for development, it added.
In building the demonstration zone, the focus should be on promoting common prosperity and people's overall development, with an aim of meeting people's increasing demand for a better life, the guideline said.
It calls for reform and innovation to address development gaps between regions as well as between urban and rural areas, and to narrow the income gap, with an emphasis on countryside, grassroots-level communities and less-developed areas, as well as people in need.
Yuan Jiajun, secretary of the CPC Zhejiang Provincial Committee, said the province will take solid measures to ensure that substantial progress will be made in construction of the demonstration zone by 2025, in line with the requirement of the guideline.
At that time, the province will take the lead in formulating the systems, mechanisms and policy frameworks. This will be done in terms of promoting common prosperity; shaping a high-quality development mode with even stronger vitality, innovation and competitiveness; forming a social structure with middle-income people as the majority; and realizing the sharing of high-quality public services that affect all aspects of people's lives, Yuan said.
By 2035, major progress is to be made in high-quality development in the province, and common prosperity will be basically attained, he added.
In building the demonstration zone, priority will be given to deepening reforms in the social sector, breaking the institutional barriers that affect high-quality development and high-quality lives, and stepping up the establishment of income and wealth distribution mechanisms to enhance social fairness, Yuan said. In addition, experiences that can be promoted in other areas will be identified.

China's top legislature passed a law on countering foreign sanctions on Thursday to better safeguard the country's sovereignty, security and development interests.
President Xi Jinping signed a presidential order to promulgate the law, which takes effect immediately.
After a second deliberation, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, the nation's top legislature, adopted the law on countering foreign sanctions when it concluded its session.
Li Zhanshu, chairman of the NPC Standing Committee, presided over the closing meeting and said the law is an important step in implementing Xi Jinping Thought on Rule of Law and on Diplomacy and accelerating legislation involving foreign affairs.
"China has always adhered to an independent foreign policy of peace and is committed to pursuing mutual benefits and common growth with other countries," Li said. "But we never give up our legitimate rights and interests. No one should expect China to accept any action that damages its own interests.
"The Chinese government and people resolutely oppose any sanctions and interference," he added.
The top legislature followed international practice to make and review the law, he said, noting that the law provides legal support not only to counter hegemony and power politics, but also to protect the interests of the country and people.
While emphasizing that the law should be fully and accurately understood and needed to be promptly applied to fight against sanctions, he also called for the acceleration of legislation relating to foreign affairs in order to better safeguard China's sovereignty, security and development interests.
According to the 16-article law, relevant departments of the State Council can decide to put foreign individuals or organizations on a sanctions list if they find them to have violated international law and basic norms of international relations, used various excuses or their own laws to contain or suppress China, taken discriminatory restrictive measures against Chinese citizens or organizations, or interfered in China's internal affairs. The countermeasures for those on the list include denial of visa issuance, denial of entry into China, cancellation of a visa or expulsion from the country, the law said.
The Legislative Affairs Commission of the NPC Standing Committee said in a statement on Thursday that drafting, reviewing and passing such a law in a short time met an urgent need to counter the hegemony and power politics of some Western countries as well as to safeguard China's sovereignty, security and development interests. It also will promote the rule of law at home and abroad in a coordinated way.
The law is of great practical and long-term significance, the commission said, adding that it will effectively improve China's legal capabilities in dealing with external risks and challenges and accelerate the formation of a comprehensive legal system involving foreign affairs.
It clarified that the law will not affect China's opening-up, adding that the country's determination to deepen reforms and open wider to the world is unshakable, as is its determination to safeguard its national sovereignty, security and development interests.
Besides the law, China has similar anti-sanctions measures in some current laws, such as a law on export control, and its legislation on opening-up has also been speeded up in recent years, according to the commission.
Li Qingming, an associate professor at the Institute of International Law of the China Academy of Social Sciences, said that the law was a major step forward in strengthening the rule of law in legislation concerning foreign affairs, saying that it provides a stronger legal basis for China in fighting the discriminatory measures of foreign nations.
Huo Zhengxin, a law professor from the School of International Law at China University of Political Science and Law, said, "When we fought against foreign sanctions in the past, this was mainly with administrative or economic measures, but now we have legal support against such behavior."
Meanwhile, the law implements a major task set out in the NPC Standing Committee's annual work report released in March, which was to upgrade the legal toolkit for meeting challenges and guarding against risks in order to oppose foreign sanctions, interference and long-arm jurisdiction, he said.
Both legal experts said foreign investors have no need to worry about the Chinese business environment after the law was adopted.
"The target of the legislation has never been those coming to invest and develop in proper ways," said Li Qingming. "Investors will not be affected, as China will continue promoting a market-oriented, sound, international and legal business environment to ensure liberalization in trade and investment."
Huo agreed, saying that China's determination in opening-up, the path of peaceful development and its will to embrace economic globalization will not change and China will also give stronger legal support to investors.